this  is not a much manthis is not a mackintyre pretty cool
begin  food products twines
might  as well as be timanthes main course because we don't eat like
to  do young
which  is not
a  number of other whole whole rangements
video  is about philosophy it's got a real philosophical question although it is quite intentionally
not  addressing that
i  think it's much more
to  address the question
a  problem
abstracted
being  becoming attractive for any possible answer you no ultimately philosophy
has  to be a problem
ultimately  a
ultimately  when the sun goes down at the end of
you've  got to be able to sit down with your
explain  to her why this matter to you
and  a lot of people have known a lot of people with peaches
what  people
a  lot of people can't take
and  if it does mean so
you
in  terms of the topic of the video before i continue on down that alley for
you  know there's a common sort of
that  this
the  god is
lists
and  to most people that is at
a  quip that
a  precise statement of philosophy but a lot of people are flabbergast
why  would any one question the value of
for  goodness
you  know is it just a semantic arguments are you just beating the precise meaning of the word word good
or  you actually trying to overturn the concept that good is something that
a  good person and a bad person
what  is the
that's  obviously to a lot of people
genuinely  in
they're  not pretending to be
really  baffling them and again if you take this kind of philosophy sir
i  think you owe them a
explanatory  or ointment you you know you should be able to
you  know put together an explanation that somebody is an outsider ear
to  and i want to again my girl friend here
dryfoos  about world she's under no obligation to agree with
or  even civilized with
she  doesn't have to agree with my poor
i  know i've joked with her repeatedly if she actually
converts  to islam we're going to break up that obviously for some extreme
differences  in belief that i can't cope with but i don't like require my girlfriends
to
i  also of ethics or something on a sign up to my philosophy or nothing else i mean obviously
if  she so impatient that she's not willing to listen to my point of view that would be a problem in the relationship
but  there's no obligation for it even sympathize with the question
let  alone the particular
ah
recently  we watched the idea
to  begin video he
in  which the woman
she  was having sex with
she  decided if she should happen to get pregnant
that  was the universe's way of telling her you all ashe should get right in
a  lot of us if you spend time
not  really religious
and
it's  basically god without a human
it's  a deep personal
well  you know it's for an atheist it's one thing to
any  specific
what  have you and then very often
we  encounter a
basically  in god with all
it's  a belief in the universe as if the universe can make decisions and can talk to you and can
have  a mind of its own this is
obviously  very very close
but  robbed of the particular
traits
that  god in
and  also the
so  that problem i think is obvious the
it  came i don't have to explain to you why if you are a nihilist you don't just not believe in
god  you also to believe in the thurifers and something citations in your
life  for you that
et  cetera
in  the same way though it was really hard for me really emotionally hard for
me  to recognize as
so  when i was younger than you when
it  was hard for me to recognize that truth truth with a capital
a  lot of the
you  know no again i came out that him ordered a lot of
when  i was that age
i  did believe in the
i  know of serving the
of  having on ethical open
having  an independent
apart  from
apart  from your face
and  that was something that powerfully haunted me i think in the same way that
god  are haunted
the  idea that there's a god
although  obviate
i  is the
but  i believe
quite  different from merely a fact
and  a lot of us lived
and
it  was very difficult for me to recognize
my  position
the
was  just as
just  as laughable
that  he
having  relation to the universe you know has sent your private god
you  know even though that person may not think of the
even  though i certainly didn't think of the truth as a god or something supernatural here that i
could  pray to her or talk to
so
i
very  easy for us philosophically especially for
care  philosophy people who make decisions in our
philosophically
it's  very easy for ideas like
in
to  take on an independent value
apart  from
apart  from the merits initiate that's true this is actually at
and  where the concept is no longer a tool that we hold in our hands is no
longer  merely
but  rather we feel as if we are in the
as  if we are the ones being used instead
this  concept is
which  is indeed i think a kind of religious
and  that many secular philosophers
they  believe in concepts and feel beholden to concepts of field that they work in the
and  again from my person
that  is a kind of every
a  kind of madness
not  again i think it's really important that we can with our own girl friends or in
our  own work places or in life if you're so many goods before you're philosopher if you're a politician if you care about
political
that  we can take these concepts and bring
and  talk about in our own lives how does this
we  know it in my disputes with someone like during
i
do  not
in  terms of being a god
i  do not think of myself as a good person i do not defend myself as a good personal
feel  insulted when some one perceives me as a bad person
which  there's actually a lot of philosophical
but  also for me the question never was his during rider a good person or a
bad  person niema have actually used those turnspits of there
from  manille what i mean this comes out actually among redirect where i'm not
asking  is some one good or bad
but  i pose particular examples which is a bit different from the way any one else of the vernon
you  know i would challenge people and say well
is  during
someone  you would trust to
you
i  am not asking as you good person or a bad person of course the real conduct of the
is  he or is he not trustworthy to be a political leader
and  i am asking about a particular type of god
i'm  asking about you now are you qualified to do i'm using good as
a  con
as  a means to an
not  as a hallowed capital
which  again we can slip into without thinking we believe in good and evil
i  want people i think would say very rightly no they don't believe that good and evil exist as absolute they
don't  believe in a hypostatized good and evil they don't believe in a divine good an evil a good and evil but
dictated  by god or something that santoine
they  admit good and evil or cultural con
nevertheless  you can fall into
there  is neither good nor evil but
i  think probably neither of us need that quote but it
and  he also says a rose by any other name would smell as sweet and a great pictareen foolin
shakespeare's  on my side in the
i  may
you  know in other disputes we think also even a reference to during my erased okay well this person
i  said this action had
an  active
and  i asked look these people have some characteristics that might make them good
i
well  they can draw
there  but could they ever run from
and  i pointed out look a lot of time the people who were elected mayor the people run from here they don't have a peach
he  may have no form education they may just be a reliable trustworthy person
grocery  store
a  well known local business
who  you know moves up in public
that's  the venatica you had candidate in for president you will do is merely
a
pizza
the  response i think he was responsible for a whole a whole chain i think
i  moved up from early managing one on pieces
he  was in a line work
no  gain my point is here this is a real world application
where  i don't think of people and i don't think of myself
you  know in terms of
good  and evil were genuinely don't believe in
i  don't believe in the
but  i can use these words and use these constant
in  an instrumental
and  it's precisely because i'm aware of their unreality
then  i'm using them to always bring our minds back to the practical
what  would it mean to be
now  there's a sense in which an remember she one person wrote in to
that  they never hire me
some
you  know well we can talk about that and i have to get
well  you know i know what it's like to raise a new warm baby
daughter
i
if  i know what it's like to teach
he's  a love with me but that's her vision but you know she see me teaching children also by the way
one  was a tenacity
and  i can say well
this  is i am this is my
may  be i'm somewhat you want to hire as a baby sinner i'm not available for bookings folks don't
don't  mail it to me saying your visit but this is maybe
and  maybe these things are related me with or not but you know i can discuss
that  and again this isn't about my soul i don't believe in the soul this isn't
a  bit being good or evil in the eyes of god this isn't about being good or evil in any
sense
outside  of our car
absolute
okay  if we're going to talk about
let's  talk about what makes a god
and  you know sure maybe i have sure comings were i not that well suited for that job as
babette  and i'm better suited to give lectures
in  the university he
i  made my first amarita by the way you know and i can have a certain
kind  of detachment
again  i just coming back to the
i  think a lot of people are comfortable with an
no
deeply  un
by  a nihilist
there  is no good
my  point my school this historical atheism sophistical miles
on  my school and nihilism historical nihilism my school of nihilism is
not  about claiming these words have no
it's  a bit how do we use these
and
you  know again
we  refer this to the esthetic
of  samanean times this is like a painter
who  recognizes that every painting
the  question is whatever value is in
whatever  truth may be revealed in his canvas
in  it in a very important sense is totally in
i'm  starting from a blank a
and  maybe i can express a political truth in historical truth a personal
truth  and emotional truth of religious truth there's all kinds of truth i can express to his
and  yet i recognize that that truth in that aesthetic value even that moral
heretical  value is something entirely created by
and  it's not something that exists in the canvas for me to discover it's
not  something that exists outside me in the natural world not even if i'm painting a landscape not
even  if my easel was set up next
the  image that
you  know what i'm express
really  comes from me and is projected by myself
on  to a world that is in that sense
no  and
and  the contrast of that is exactly the belief that
this
for  you to die
which  is really only a few small steps removed
the  belief that god is
that  you can that the divine that that six and real value is
out
if  only you have eyes to see if only you have ears to hear if only you supplicate yourself a
base  yourself humble yourself if only your humble enough to allow the ideas outside
yourself  to rule you
and  i am saying no no no don't humble
recognize  that all authors
from
that  all questions of authorship all questions of value
see  from your
in
you  know whether this plant is a
is  up to me in the side the good and evil thinking makes it so and by
that  i'm not claiming we had
shouldn't  be judgments but we start i'm not claiming we should withhold our judgment and pretend there's
no  difference between a beautiful painting
there  is a difference
may  be partly cultural watanabe aesthetic and it may be your decision in my decision may be artisans
a  society and we may have laws and cultural conventions and traditions there may be so many things that
and  likewise there may be complex
factors  the
god
all  of them are
all  of them are innocent
there  is no essential
there's  no essence in the
never  to begin with one of
i'm  out